---
---

<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/toc.css">

h2. Introduction
* "About Druid":./
* "Concepts and Terminology":./Concepts-and-Terminology.html

h2. Getting Started
* "Tutorial: A First Look at Druid":./Tutorial:-A-First-Look-at-Druid.html
* "Tutorial: The Druid Cluster":./Tutorial:-The-Druid-Cluster.html
* "Tutorial: Loading Your Data Part 1":./Tutorial:-Loading-Your-Data-Part-1.html
* "Tutorial: Loading Your Data Part 2":./Tutorial:-Loading-Your-Data-Part-2.html
* "Tutorial: All About Queries":./Tutorial:-All-About-Queries.html

h2. Booting a Druid Cluster
* "Simple Cluster Configuration":Simple-Cluster-Configuration.html
* "Production Cluster Configuration":Production-Cluster-Configuration.html
* "Production Hadoop Configuration":Hadoop-Configuration.html
* "Rolling Cluster Updates":Rolling-Updates.html

h2. Configuration
* "Common Configuration":Configuration.html
* "Indexing Service":Indexing-Service-Config.html
* "Coordinator":Coordinator-Config.html
* "Historical":Historical-Config.html
* "Broker":Broker-Config.html
* "Realtime":Realtime-Config.html
* "Configuring Logging":./Logging.html

h2. Data Ingestion
* "Ingestion FAQ":./Ingestion-FAQ.html
* "Realtime":./Realtime-ingestion.html
** "Kafka-0.8.x Ingestion":./Kafka-Eight.html
* "Batch":./Batch-ingestion.html
** "Different Hadoop Versions":./Other-Hadoop.html
* "Indexing Service":./Indexing-Service.html
** "Tasks":./Tasks.html
* "Data Formats":./Data_formats.html

h2. Operations
* "Performance FAQ":./Performance-FAQ.html
* "Extending Druid":./Modules.html
* "Booting a Production Cluster":./Booting-a-production-cluster.html

h2. Querying
* "Querying":./Querying.html
** "Filters":./Filters.html
** "Aggregations":./Aggregations.html
** "Post Aggregations":./Post-aggregations.html
** "Granularities":./Granularities.html
** "DimensionSpecs":./DimensionSpecs.html
* Query Types
** "GroupBy":./GroupByQuery.html
*** "LimitSpec":./LimitSpec.html
*** "Having":./Having.html
** "Search":./SearchQuery.html
*** "SearchQuerySpec":./SearchQuerySpec.html
** "Segment Metadata":./SegmentMetadataQuery.html
** "Time Boundary":./TimeBoundaryQuery.html
** "Timeseries":./TimeseriesQuery.html
** "TopN":./TopNQuery.html
*** "TopNMetricSpec":./TopNMetricSpec.html

h2. Architecture
* "Design":./Design.html
* "Segments":./Segments.html
* Node Types
** "Historical":./Historical.html
** "Broker":./Broker.html
** "Coordinator":./Coordinator.html
*** "Rule Configuration":./Rule-Configuration.html
** "Realtime":./Realtime.html
** "Indexing Service":./Indexing-Service.html
*** "Middle Manager":./Middlemanager.html
*** "Peon":./Peons.html
* External Dependencies
** "Deep Storage":./Deep-Storage.html
** "Metadata Storage":./MySQL.html
** "ZooKeeper":./ZooKeeper.html

h2. Experimental
* "About Experimental Features":./About-Experimental-Features.html
* "Geographic Queries":./GeographicQueries.html
* "Select Query":./SelectQuery.html
* "Approximate Histograms and Quantiles":./ApproxHisto.html
* "Router node":./Router.html

h2. Development
* "Versioning":./Versioning.html
* "Build From Source":./Build-from-source.html
* "Libraries":./Libraries.html

h2. Misc
* "Thanks":./Thanks.html
